talks/2024-11-12-sloc.md, before:


---
title: Generator Pipelines
subtitle: co-routines FTW!
author: John Hanley
date: 12\textsuperscript{th} November 2024
geometry: paperwidth=8in, paperheight=6in
header-includes:
    - \usepackage{setspace}
    - \onehalfspacing
---
[//]: # ( Copyright 2024 John Hanley. MIT Licensed. )

\newcommand{\blank}{\vspace{4mm}\vfill}
\Large
\newpage
\hrule
\blank

# agenda

\blank

- a micro rant
- co-routine pipelines
- paragraph fill

\blank
\hrule

\newpage
\hrule
\blank

Comments lie!

\blank
\hrule

\newpage
\textrm{\large https://codereview.stackexchange.com/questions/126088/snells-law}

> \> The code works, seems it is returning valid values

It doesn't. There are two crucial errors in the routine, and you can
see them both in this assignment:

```
    # Make a copy of i-th column vector from matrix m
    cvt = m[i]
```

That's not a copy, and it's not a column vector.
It's a read-write view to a row vector, and among other effects this ends up
producing an `m` that is fully broadcast-assigned to `v`,
which was not your intent.

\blank

We now have to guess which is the truth and which is a lie --- the comments or the code.

\newpage
\hrule
\blank

[SLOC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Source_lines_of_code)

\blank
\blank
\hrule

\newpage
\hrule
\blank

[SLOC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Source_lines_of_code)

\blank

source lines of code

\blank
\hrule

\newpage
\phantom{.}
\blank

# PHP comments

- `# foo`

\blank

# C++ comments

- `//` single line
- `/*` multi `\n` line `*/`

\blank

\newpage
# separation of concerns

We would like to be able to swap in one or another module,
based on current filetype, similar to these shell pipelines:

```bash
$ cat example1.php | filter_php_comments.sh |
    filter_blank_lines.sh | wc -l

$ cat example2.C   | filter_cxx_comments.sh |
    filter_blank_lines.sh | wc -l
```

\newpage
# CLOC

- https://github.com/AlDanial/cloc
- `cloc` counts lines of code: blank lines, comment lines, and physical lines of source code, in diverse programming languages.
- We choose to define the `cloc` counts as the "correct" counts.

\newpage
# CLOC

Example output:
```
$  cloc /tmp/repos/llama.cpp/examples/jeopardy/graph.py
       1 text file.
       1 unique file.
       0 files ignored.

github.com/AlDanial/cloc v 2.02 ...
-----------------------------------------------
Language    files    blank    comment    code
-----------------------------------------------
Python      1        8        0          50
-----------------------------------------------
```

\newpage
# Demo

src/count/tests/sloc_test.py:
    SlocTest

Commit message:

31 tuesday talk (#50)
* Test a large enough subset of the corpus that you're likely to get each of the various file types

* Add _do_shebang()

* Add a comment_pattern attribute, to support REMarks in .bat files

* Add SKIP_LANGUAGE

* Add test_last_line_is_blank

* One of the .mk files has an off-by-one issue

* Add test_empty_intersection

* Add SUPPORTED_LANGUAGES

* Add a "themes" slide

* Update src/count/sloc.py

Co-authored-by: sourcery-ai[bot] <58596630+sourcery-ai[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: sourcery-ai[bot] <58596630+sourcery-ai[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

talks/2024-11-12-sloc.md, after:


---
title: Generator Pipelines
subtitle: co-routines FTW!
author: John Hanley
date: 12\textsuperscript{th} November 2024
geometry: paperwidth=8in, paperheight=6in
header-includes:
    - \usepackage{setspace}
    - \onehalfspacing
---
[//]: # ( Copyright 2024 John Hanley. MIT Licensed. )

\newcommand{\blank}{\vspace{4mm}\vfill}
\Large
\newpage
\hrule
\blank

# agenda

\blank

- a micro rant
- co-routine pipelines
- paragraph fill

\blank
\hrule

\newpage
\hrule
\blank

Comments lie!

\blank
\hrule

\newpage
\textrm{\large https://codereview.stackexchange.com/questions/126088/snells-law}

> \> The code works, seems it is returning valid values

It doesn't. There are two crucial errors in the routine, and you can
see them both in this assignment:

```
    # Make a copy of i-th column vector from matrix m
    cvt = m[i]
```

That's not a copy, and it's not a column vector.
It's a read-write view to a row vector, and among other effects this ends up
producing an `m` that is fully broadcast-assigned to `v`,
which was not your intent.

\blank

We now have to guess which is the truth and which is a lie --- the comments or the code.

\newpage
\hrule
\blank

[SLOC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Source_lines_of_code)

\blank
\blank
\hrule

\newpage
\hrule
\blank

[SLOC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Source_lines_of_code)

\blank

source lines of code

\blank
\hrule

\newpage
\phantom{.}
\blank

# PHP comments

- `# foo`

\blank

# C++ comments

- `//` single line
- `/*` multi `\n` line `*/`

\blank

\newpage
# separation of concerns

We would like to be able to swap in one or another module,
based on current filetype, similar to these shell pipelines:

```bash
$ cat example1.php | filter_php_comments.sh |
    filter_blank_lines.sh | wc -l

$ cat example2.C   | filter_cxx_comments.sh |
    filter_blank_lines.sh | wc -l
```

\newpage
# CLOC

- https://github.com/AlDanial/cloc
- `cloc` counts lines of code: blank lines, comment lines, and physical lines of source code, in diverse programming languages.
- We choose to define the `cloc` counts as the "correct" counts.

## three counts

- a line is "blank" or "text"
  - a text line starting with comment is a "comment" line
  - else a text line is a "code" line

\newpage
# CLOC

Example output:
```
$  cloc /tmp/repos/llama.cpp/examples/jeopardy/graph.py
       1 text file.
       1 unique file.
       0 files ignored.

github.com/AlDanial/cloc v 2.02 ...
-----------------------------------------------
Language    files    blank    comment    code
-----------------------------------------------
Python      1        8        0          50
-----------------------------------------------
```

\newpage
# Demo

[src/count/tests/sloc_test.py](
https://github.com/jhanley634/dojo-blackboard/blob/main/src/count/tests/sloc_test.py):
    SlocTest

[src/count/sloc.py](
https://github.com/jhanley634/dojo-blackboard/blob/main/src/count/sloc.py):
    Sloc

\newpage
# recurring themes

- separation of concerns
- write down the spec
- rapid edit-test cycle
- preserve interactive testing as an artifact
- scope it down
